Ingredients
 
1x
2x
3x
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 medium yellow onion -diced
1 pound 90% lean ground beef
2 1/2 tablespoons chili powder
2 tablespoons ground cumin
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 tablespoon garlic powder
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon ground cayenne pepper* -optional
1 1/2 cups beef broth
1 (15 oz.) can petite diced tomatoes
1 (16 oz.) can red kidney beans, drained and rinsed
1 (8 oz.) can tomato sauce

Instructions
Add the olive oil to a large soup pot and place it over medium-high heat for two minutes. Add the onion. Cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add the ground beef to the pot. Break it apart with a wooden spoon. Cook for 6-7 minutes, until the beef is browned, stirring occasionally.
Add the chili powder, cumin, sugar, tomato paste, garlic powder, salt, pepper, and optional cayenne. Stir until well combined.
Add the broth, diced tomatoes (with their juice), drained beans, and tomato sauce. Stir well.
Bring the liquid to a low boil. Then, reduce the heat (low to medium-low) to gently simmer the chili, uncovered, for 20-25 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Remove the pot from the heat. Let the chili rest for 5-10 minutes before serving.
Notes
I typically skip the cayenne pepper because I have a young kiddo.  Then, I put out some hot sauce for those adults that want to add some spiciness to their chili.
Nutrition
Serving: 1/6th of the recipe | Calories: 334kcal | Carbohydrates: 34g | Protein: 25g | Fat: 11g | Saturated Fat: 3g | Cholesterol: 49mg | Sodium: 1249mg | Potassium: 1110mg | Fiber: 9g | Sugar: 10g | Vitamin A: 1445IU | Vitamin C: 12.8mg | Calcium: 99mg | Iron: 7.5mg


The Best Vegan Mac and Cheese Recipe
This Taste of Home Test Kitchen-approved recipe uses a combination of soaked cashews and nutritional yeast to create a savory sauce for vegan macaroni and cheese.
Ingredients
How To Make Vegan Mac And Cheese
TMB STUDIO

2 cups raw cashews
16 ounces uncooked elbow macaroni
1-1/2 cups water
1/3 cup nutritional yeast
2 teaspoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons salt
2 teaspoons onion powder
1-1/2 teaspoons paprika
1 teaspoon pepper
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper
Directions
Step 1: Soak the cashews
How To Make Vegan Mac And Cheese
TMB STUDIO

To soften the cashews, rinse in cold water then place in a large bowl. Add water to cover the cashews by 3 inches. Cover the bowl and let stand overnight.

Step 2: Cook the macaroni
Cook the macaroni noodles according to the package instructions.

Step 3: Blend the vegan cheese sauce
How To Make Vegan Mac And Cheese
TMB STUDIO

While the noodles cook, drain and rinse the cashews. Discard the liquid. Transfer the cashews to a food processor and add the water, nutritional yeast, lemon juice and seasonings. Blend until pureed and smooth, about 3 to 4 minutes, scraping down the sides as needed.

Step 4: Stir to combine
How To Make Vegan Mac And Cheese
TMB STUDIO

When the macaroni is cooked, drain and return to the pot. Gently stir in the cashew mixture to fully coat each noodle. Cook and stir over medium-low heat until warmed through.

Step 5: Bake in the oven (optional)
How To Make Vegan Mac And Cheese
TMB STUDIO

Elevate your dish by making baked vegan mac and cheese. Pour the mixture into a greased baking dish, top with breadcrumbs and bake in the oven at 350°F for 20 minutes.